docs(blog): add production infrastructure agents post (#3060)
langfuse/langfuse-docs: content/blog/2026-06-05-agentic-setup-for-operational-work.mdx

---
title: How we use agents to review production infrastructure
date: 2026/06/05
description: How repo-owned agent workflows help us review incidents, infra cost, security findings, and bugs in production.
tag: engineering
author: Max
---

import { BlogHeader } from "@/components/blog/BlogHeader";
import { FileTree } from "@/components/docs";

> <BlogHeader

Reviewer: add a visualization at the top that alludes to loop engineering?
https://www.latent.space/p/ainews-loopcraft-the-art-of-stacking

  title="How we use agents to review production infrastructure"
  description="How repo-owned agent workflows help us review incidents, infra cost, security findings, and bugs in production."
  date="June 5, 2026"
  authors={["maxdeichmann"]}
/>

We use agents to turn production data into recurring artifacts for engineering review:

1. A weekly production review surfaces important production signals to act on.
2. Cloud cost analysis explains the main infrastructure spend drivers.
3. Daily repository scans turn security findings into engineering priorities.

With AI, we can generate these reviews without adding bureaucracy for the engineering team. Engineers stay focused on systems judgment instead of weekly evidence collection. They decide whether a cost driver is acceptable, whether a page was customer-impacting, whether a bug needs an owner, whether a monitor is noisy, and whether a DeepSec finding needs an owner.

The data already lived across our tools, like Datadog, Linear, incident.io, and Metabase, spread across four production environments. Nothing pulled the systems together, so reviewing it every week would mean going through each tool and environment by hand.

> This post walks through our current setup and how we got there.

Reviewer: can we call out any impact at the top (metrics, incidents prevented)?

## The system combines MCP, repo-owned skills, and fixed output tables

> We set up a system with four layers. First, we made the relevant data queryable. Second, we exposed these sources to the agent harness through MCP. Third, we developed and iterated on repo-owned skills. Fourth, each skill defines a fixed output table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We set up a system with four layers:

1. We made the relevant data queryable.
2. We exposed these sources to the agent harness through MCP. 
3. We developed and iterated on repo-owned skills.
4. Each skill defines a fixed output table.
```

Reviewer: I don't think the layers are actual layers as the skill output table is part of (3)

      </FileTree.Folder>
      <FileTree.Folder name="analyze-cloud-costs" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.File name="SKILL.md" />
      </FileTree.Folder>
      <FileTree.Folder name="security-review" defaultOpen>
        <FileTree.File name="SKILL.md" />
      </FileTree.Folder>
    </FileTree.Folder>
  </FileTree.Folder>
</FileTree>

Linear is the deduplication layer across workflows. Before the agent reports an item as new, it searches existing Linear issues and comments. This keeps recurring items from showing up as fresh work every week.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Harness["Repo-owned agent harness"]
    Router["AGENTS.md"]
    Skills["<u>Skills</u><br/>production review<br/>cost analysis<br/>security review"]
    MCP["MCP servers"]
    Tables["Fixed output tables"]
    Router --> Skills
    Skills --> MCP
    Skills --> Tables
  end

  Prod["<u>Production data</u><br/>Datadog<br/>Metabase cost marts<br/>incident.io<br/>Pylon"]
  Work["<u>Workflow tools</u><br/>Linear<br/>GitHub<br/>Slack<br/>Langfuse docs MCP<br/>DeepSec"]
  Review["Monday engineering review"]

  MCP --> Prod
  MCP --> Work
  Tables --> Review
```

## How each workflow works

> ### Weekly production review

Reviewer: is there a screenshot or example output that you could add here?

> The `weekly-production-review` skill produces a report from Linear bug tickets, Datadog error signals, and public status-page incidents.

Reviewer: the skill names should link to the skills

> The agent returns tables for Datadog monitor alerts, errored traces, error log patterns, bug-labeled Linear tickets, and public incidents. This gives us one weekly pass over the signals that may need action: bugs to prioritize, incidents to discuss, and Datadog errors that should become follow-up issues.

Reviewer 2: The paragraph above already enumerates Linear, Datadog and public status page incidents. This paragraph contains 2 enumerations that are almost the same. I'd cut the 2 in this paragraph: 
1. the agent returns tables of what it finds.
2. signals that need action.

We iterated heavily on this skill. The agent needs to query each source with the right filters, deduplicate issues across tools, keep regions distinct, and preserve links already attached to Linear tickets.

### Cloud cost analysis depends on warehouse data

> Agents need data access before they need better prompts. For cost analysis, we export AWS CUR reports into BigQuery, enrich them with business data using dbt, expose the resulting marts through Metabase, and make the relevant tables accessible through MCP.

Reviewer: do not assume that the reader knows what AWS CUR is; just put the full name of this service here without the abbreviation

The `analyze-cloud-costs` skill does not ask the model to "think about spend." It points the agent at cost marts and asks for the same grain every time: recent complete days versus a baseline, provider/service breakdowns, and cost per 100k ingested billable events.

The agent runs the broad pass: it queries source tables, identifies drivers, preserves caveats such as incomplete current-day AWS CUR rows, and returns the same breakdown every time.

### Security skill turns daily scans into a triage table

> The daily security automation runs DeepSec on selected repositories. It scans the repositories, processes findings, revalidates high-severity findings, and exports a compact findings table for review.

Reviewer 2: I'd cut some of the enumerated items here: It scans the repositories and exports a compact findings table for review.

Before assigning work, the agent checks Linear for existing issues so the same vulnerability does not get reported every day. After reviewing the table, we ask the agent to create Linear tickets for the relevant findings. Linear Intelligence assigns those tickets to the right engineer.

## Skills need review and iteration

Skills are not done when the first version works. They need review and iteration until engineers can trust them in a recurring workflow.

We review skill output like product behavior: whether the agent found enough evidence, kept formatting stable, and stopped at the right point. Each miss becomes a skill change.

> _For example, we initially missed many error cases when searching Datadog for issues. We then updated the skill with the same instructions we would give a coworker: which data to query, how to filter it, and how to link the results. This improved output quality over time._

Reviewer 2: Can you link to the commit/PR for this change? Would be cool

## Next: ClickHouse query-log analysis by feature area

The next step is to connect agents directly to ClickHouse query-log data through MCP. We already tag ClickHouse queries with dimensions such as project, API route, feature area, query name, and accessed tables. Today, dashboards use these tags to show live resource consumption for each ClickHouse cluster.

> Next, we want agents to use the same data to enrich the production review and cost reports. This should let us allocate ClickHouse cost to specific features or projects and find access patterns that caused API performance issues.

Reviewer 2: Both paragraphs start with "next" here. Change the second one to "After that, .."

Reviewer 2: Also, I'd explicitly name Clickhouse instead of saying "the same data". I was confused for a moment on what data it was talking about

---
title: How we use agents to review production infrastructure
date: 2026/06/05
description: How repo-owned agent workflows help us review incidents, infra cost, DeepSec findings, and production telemetry.
tag: engineering
author: Max
---

import { BlogHeader } from "@/components/blog/BlogHeader";

<BlogHeader
  title="How we use agents to review production infrastructure"
  description="How repo-owned agent workflows help us review incidents, infra cost, DeepSec findings, and production telemetry."
  date="June 5, 2026"
  authors={["maxdeichmann"]}
/>

> We use agents to turn production data into recurring engineering review artifacts: weekly incident and bug review, infra cost analysis, DeepSec findings, and Datadog investigations.

Reviewer 2: When reading the post further I got lost after the "The system combines MCP, repo-owned skills, and fixed tables" section, in hindsight because I didn't have a good mental overview of the automations described. You have 4 automations, and the titles after that section don't reflect that. I would start by explicitly stating here "We use agents to turn production data into **4** recurring engineering review artifacts:"

Reviewer 2: Maybe put them in a numbered list

> The pattern is simple: make the data queryable through MCP, keep workflow instructions in the repo, require fixed output tables, and let engineers approve follow-ups. This gives us more production visibility without weekly report-writing work.

Reviewer 2: - last sentence is very similar to heading of next section ("This gives us more production visibility without weekly report-writing work." vs "We wanted more production visibility without weekly reporting work"). Would cut it 
- If we cut that sentence, we need another way to let the story flow. I would actually replace this paragraph with something like this: "The agents free up engineering time that we can spend elsewhere. This post walks through our current setup and why we made certain design choices."

## We wanted more production visibility without weekly reporting work

We already had Datadog, Linear, incident.io, a public status page, Metabase, GitHub Actions, and ClickHouse. We also run four production environments: `prod-us`, `prod-eu`, `prod-hipaa`, and `prod-jp`. The gap was cross-system review: connecting customer incidents, monitor pages, production bugs, infra cost drivers, and DeepSec findings into one weekly engineering artifact without manually checking every environment and tool.

> That review matters, but assembling it manually is report work. We did not want engineers doing that every week before discussing incidents, cost drivers, alerts, and DeepSec findings.

Reviewer 2: This section needs some cutting I think. There is a lot of enumeration (7 tools in the first sentence, 4 envs, 5 review artifacts). 

Suggestion: 

The data already lived across our tools, like Datadog, Linear, incident.io, and Metabase, spread over four production environments (prod-us, prod-eu, prod-hipaa, prod-jp). Nothing pulled the systems together, so reviewing it every week would mean going through each tool and environment by hand. We did not want engineers spending time on that collection before they could even start discussing what to fix.

## The system combines MCP, repo-owned skills, and fixed tables

> The system has four layers: queryable production data, MCP access to that data, repo-owned skills, and fixed output tables. The workflow lives in [`langfuse/langfuse`](https://github.com/langfuse/langfuse/tree/main/.agents), not in one engineer's local prompt history. Root `AGENTS.md` and `CLAUDE.md` are discovery surfaces, while `.agents/AGENTS.md` and `.agents/skills/**` own durable workflow definitions.

Reviewer 2: Would start this paragraph a bit more narrative-style: "We set up a system with four layers: "

Reviewer 2: We have a component to visualize folder structure, would use that to show the skill files. See https://langfuse.com/blog/2026-03-13-weekly-digest-ai-skill#the-skill for an example

> Linear is the deduplication layer across workflows. Before the agent reports a finding as new, it searches existing Linear issues and comments. This keeps recurring alerts, bugs, cost regressions, and DeepSec findings from showing up as fresh work every week.

Reviewer 2: If possible I'd replace "recurring alerts, bugs, cost regressions, and DeepSec findings" with one general word, like "items"

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  subgraph Harness["Repo-owned agent harness"]
    Router["AGENTS.md"]
    Skills["Skills<br/>production review<br/>cost analysis<br/>Datadog recipes<br/>DeepSec review"]
    MCP["MCP servers<br/>and plugins"]
    Tables["Fixed output tables"]
    Router --> Skills
    Skills --> MCP
    Skills --> Tables
  end

  Prod["Production data<br/>Datadog EU/US<br/>Metabase cost marts<br/>incident.io<br/>Pylon<br/>[planned] ClickHouse query log"]
  Work["Workflow tools<br/>Linear<br/>GitHub<br/>Slack<br/>Langfuse docs MCP<br/>DeepSec daily scan"]
  Review["Monday engineering review<br/>routing + follow-ups"]

  MCP --> Prod
  MCP --> Work
  Tables --> Review
```

> This keeps engineers focused on systems judgment, not weekly evidence collection. They decide whether a cost driver is acceptable, whether a page was customer-impacting, whether a bug needs an owner, whether a monitor is noisy, and whether a DeepSec finding should be routed.

Reviewer 2: This is a nice paragraph to end the section. One small comment: the "this does X, not Y" phrasing feels AI. Would rephrase the first sentence to "This keeps engineers focused on systems judgment, instead of weekly evidence collection."

> ## Weekly production review joins incidents, bugs, and pages

Reviewer 2: There are 4 automations in your intro and diagram and 3 sections about them below:
- I'd add a section on the datadog one as well, even if it's just stating that the findings from another automation also apply because the workflow is similar. It will give people structure to hold onto while reading 
- I'd group these sections under one bigger section "Zooming in on each workflow" (or something in that direction), so it's clear that here you are going into detail for each one, and the 2 last sections of the post are something else

The `weekly-production-review` skill produces an event-centric report from Linear bug tickets, Datadog alert/page signals, incident.io incidents, and public status-page events.

> The report has one main section and three evidence sections. The main section is the event view: one row per production issue we may discuss on Monday. If one checkout regression causes two Datadog monitors to page and one Linear bug to be filed, it is still one event.

Reviewer 2: Can you make this visual? Ideally a screenshot of a report, or just a "drawing" in markdown/excalidraw

Reviewer 2: It would be good to have a visual representation, and then 
- one paragraph describing the main section
- one paragraph describing the evidence sections

You mention "main section" and "evidence sections" in the beginning of each paragraph, put these words in bold

> The evidence sections keep the source data separate. The Linear section lists the underlying bug issues and their status. The Datadog section lists monitor/page signals, including noise and expected tests. The customer incident section lists what was communicated externally. This avoids counting the same breakage once as an incident, again as an alert, and again as a bug.

Reviewer 2: You need to explicitly add that there are three kinds of evidence sections (I at first thought that you made a mistake, and that there were evidence sections + linear + datadog + customer incident section)

Reviewer 2: I would do it as follows: 
The evidence sections keep the source data separate. There are three different evidence sections:
- the Linear section lists the underlying bug issues and their status
- the Datadog section lists monitor/page signals, including noise and expected tests
- the customer incident section lists what was communicated externally

This avoids counting the same breakage once as an incident, again as an alert, and again as a bug.

The workflow is read-only by default. The agent can summarize and deduplicate, but it needs human approval before Linear comments, new issues, incident follow-ups, or monitor changes.

> We review the output every Monday in an engineering check-in. The team looks at the previous week's production review, agrees which signals need action, and routes follow-ups to the engineers closest to the affected systems.

Reviewer 2: Is this unique to the weekly production review? If not best to leave it out

## Cloud cost analysis depends on warehouse data

Agents need data access before they need better prompts. For cost analysis, this means pushing cost data into the data warehouse, exposing it through Metabase, and making the relevant tables accessible through MCP. The `analyze-cloud-costs` skill does not ask the model to "think about spend." It points the agent at cost marts and forces it to choose a grain: daily totals, recent complete UTC days versus a baseline, provider and service breakdowns, usage type, operation, account, and cost per 100k tracing events.

The agent runs the broad pass: query source tables, identify drivers, preserve caveats such as incomplete current-day AWS CUR rows, and return the same breakdown every time.

## DeepSec turns daily scans into routed findings

> The recurring security workflow is the daily DeepSec automation. It scans selected repositories, processes findings with a Codex-backed agent, revalidates high-severity findings, and exports a compact findings table for review.

Reviewer 2: The daily Deepsec automation is our recurring security workflow.

> Before routing a finding, the agent checks Linear for existing issues so the same vulnerability does not get reported every day. Findings stay read-only until a human reviews the table and chooses which rows should become Linear tickets, GitHub follow-ups, or direct engineer pings.

Reviewer 2: What does "routing a finding" mean?

> DeepSec workspace state, prompts, and generated reports stay ignored and local. The public artifact is the triage output: severity, affected file, revalidation state, and recommended next step.

Reviewer 2: Instead of enumerating the sections of a triage output, I would end the sentence at "is the triage output.", and then show an example of such a  triage output. If it's too long, it's find to truncate contents

Reviewer 2: The more I read the post, the more I realize how many enumerations are in it. Cutting down on these will improve ease of reading a lot

## Skills need review and iteration

Skills are not done when the first version works. They need review and iteration until engineers can trust them in a recurring workflow.

> We review skill output like product behavior: missing evidence, vague summaries, wrong source priority, unstable formatting, and places where the agent stopped too early. Each miss becomes a workflow change.

Reviewer 2: Cut some of the examples enumerated here

> For example, one `Experiment Backfill Missing Logs` alert did not make it into a review. We changed the weekly production review workflow to require a full paginated Datadog event sweep before clustering alerts. The final report must confirm that every production monitor title found in the window is represented or explicitly excluded.

Reviewer 2: Would put this paragraph in italic so that it's visually clear that this is an example (and could be skipped without missing info)

> The same pattern applies to Datadog investigation. The `datadog-query-recipes` skill documents environment routing across `prod-us`, `prod-eu`, `prod-hipaa`, and `prod-jp`, tenant correlation for public API traces, queue consumer telemetry, span query shapes, and metric names. The agent starts with aggregate queries and fetches raw spans, logs, or traces only after a cluster is identified.

Reviewer 2: Make this its own section, put it above the "skill needs review and iteration" section, so that it's grouped with the descriptions of other workflows
